Now I know that they react up already comes with just an other testing tools pre-installed.
But I think it's important for us to understand how it works so that we can also build something like
create react up ourselves.
So I'm going to start from scratch and set up a few testing examples for you.
Now just here has great documentation.
Once again with any library you go through their guide and we provide a lot of info as the library changes
you can see that it's version 20 2.4 now things might get updated.
But their principal concepts won't change.
So let's get started by installing just or first of all let's create a project folder.
I'm going to create a project folder called test and we'll just go into that folder and run our usual
PM in it.
Dash y to create an NPM package.
And we also want to create a script dot JSE file and let's open that up.
And our favorite text editor
looking nice and pretty perfect.
Now let's look at packaged Jaison and obviously the first step we want to do is run NPM install just
and actually let me cancel this.
Remember that just is for development purposes.
We don't really need it as a dependency for our up.
So usually when you install just you want to do NPM install
dash dash save def loops.
Let's try that again.
Just remember that with your version of NPM when you do NPM installed gests it assumes the dash dash
save as a dev or as a dependency.
So that's why it end do the dash dash safe here.
Now while this is loading Let's go into our scripts and change this to the test command.
And all we need to do here is run just once it's installed.
Not sure what happening here looks like a bit of a narrow Let's just close this out and run it again
now now while that's loading Let's go into our skirt's file and think about what exercise we might want
to incorporate.
And I think having us incorporate a simple Google search functionality might be a fun little exercise.
So let's do that.
It looks like everything was added Syllis just hit clear make this a little bit smaller.
And again if we go to Pakistan Jason we see that it's part of the dev dependencies not the dependencies
but Dev because you do it because we did the dash dash dot save or dash save death in the script.
JS file.
Let's say that were Google and we have a variable.
This is going to be a simplified version of their search algorithm but the principles are going to be
the same.
So let's say that the Google database has an array of all the Web sites that they've indexed.
Let's say the first one is Catts dot com.
Obviously it's the internet after all.
We also have soup recipes Dawk on everybody loves soup.
We have flowers dot com and let's just add one more we'll say that we also have animals dot com.
Pretty basic web sites and these are all the Web site that Google can search for you obviously in real
life.
This list might be a little bit bigger.
All right.
So there is our Google database.
You know what.
While we're at it let's say that a few more cat pictures.
Dot.com and maybe my favorite
all right and I've added these last two because maybe if somebody searches for cats in the Google Chrome
browser Well we might want to show them these three links again.
Let's create a function and this will just be the Google search function.
And this function will take the search
that the user provides.
So whatever they're searching for and from there it does a few things.
First we want to say it's going to be a very simple algorithm.
Obviously this can be this is way more complicated on Google but the idea is we something and if there
is some sort of a match we want to return it.
Let's just say that the Google database is going to get filtered and using the filter function will
say that each item in the database is a Web site that is going to get filtered and we need to do is
return the Web site
that includes.
So this is to say cats dot com if it includes whatever the search but was like I said very very nice
and basic Google search algorithm.
And we also want to return these matches to the user because that's what Google does.
But let's say that we want to make sure because hypothetically this database can get really really big
we want to only return the top three results so we can just say let me make sure I spell that right
first.
We want to say if this dot length is greater than three if you have more than three matches then we'll
just say matches dot slice and just returned the first three results.
Otherwise just return the regular matches.
Let's make this smaller so we can see.
All right.
Let's test this out and see if it actually works.
I'm going to run the Google search function and let's say that the search input that I'm going to put
in will be soup
and less just cancelled all long this to make sure that whatever the output is while we log it into
our terminal let me save.
And again with node we can just run this node script.
J.S.
All right look at that.
I have soup recipes.
If this changes to cats
I get cat stuff.
And my favorite cats are calm but not cat pictures dot because it doesn't match cats.
If we had a nother Web site here let's call it my favorite cats to and I only search for cat
O and make sure I add a comma I always forget the comma.
Let me clear this and try that again.
All right.
I only get one two and three results because we're doing this little slice.
We're only returning the top three results.
Awesome.
We've just implemented google on a simpler scale but mind you this is pretty much how Google works.
All right so that was fun but how can we test this.
Let's say we were Google and we want to make sure that this Google search function works properly because
it's an important function for our app since we have just installed let's run NPM test and see what
happens.
NPM test
it just says no tests found because we haven't run any tests.
But you can see over here that just automatically looks for anything that has either a folder that has
the underscore under crosscourt tests and anything inside of it or it's going to look at any file that
has the spec or the test dot syntax.
By that logic I can just create a new file script test dodgy us or I can put Spack and here which is
also common.
And I hit enter.
And if I run this again
I get a fail.
It says your test suite must contain a least one test all right.
Let's clear this.
So how can you write a test for Google search and we'll get to that in the next video.
But just to make sure that our test passes I'll show you one quick way that we can write unit tests
and just and that is we have now an IT function and the first parameter of the function.
And again this comes with just.
But if you download other testing libraries pretty much all of them have this function as well.
Like I said all these libraries have a very similar syntax.
So if you know one you can transition into the other quite easily with a few minor changes.
So the first parameter and here is some sort of a string that will appear here so let's just say this
is a test.
And then the second parameter is a function which is the test that needs to run.
In our case we don't really have anything but let's save this and run NPM test
Whoa.
Look at that.
We have our very first test.
That was pretty easy right.
All we did was NPM and just and we already have this new function and we can't run tests and we see
that this is a test passed in one millisecond.
That's a pretty fast test.
Everything is green and nice.
Kind of feels good.
Gives you a nice boost of dopamine.
All right.
In the next video we're actually going to start writing some tests for our Google search.
I'll see in the next one.